Feature: documentation transition gait (#129)
project-march/tutorials: doc/march_packages/march_gait_selection.rst

.. _march-gait-selection-label:

march_gait_selection
====================

Overview
--------
The march_gait_selection module provides the exoskeleton operating system with gait-specific information to perform the

> requested movement. It uses the march-gait-files, which are parsed using the march-shared-classes, to gather this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requested movement. It uses the march_gait_files, which are parsed using the march_shared_classes, to gather this
```

> information in a standard format. These class objects are stored as attributes in the gait-selection object. The gait

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information in a standard format. These class objects are stored as attributes in the ``GaitSelection`` object. The gait
```

selection node can use this gait-selection object to extract the data corresponding to the requested gait/subgait name.

Behavior
--------

> The march-state-machine accepts or declines a gait request originating from the input device. If the gait is accepted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The march_state_machine accepts or declines a gait request originating from the input device. If the gait is accepted
```

> by the state machine the request will be send over to the march-gait-selection module using the subgait sequence defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the state machine the request will be sent over to the march_gait_selection module using the subgait sequence defined
```

in the state machine. The gait selection module will extract the data from the parsed gaits, if possible, and if executed

> correctly, will send the required data in a new format to the hardware-interface or simulation part of the exoskeleton

Reviewer: ```suggestion
correctly, will send the required data in a new format to the march_gait_scheduler.
```

software.

Transition-subgait
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
It is possible to transition between two matching named subgaits of two different gaits (for example between the right
swing of the walk small and walk large). The gait-selection module is able to accomplish this if the requested

> gait/sub-gait format consists of an old and new gait name. This structure requires that both gait names have matching

Reviewer: Perhaps you could mention the [`GaitName`](https://github.com/project-march/march/blob/develop/march_shared_resources/action/GaitName.action) action here, so that is more clear what the format is.

subgait names to use for the transition. The transition algorithm calculates a new trajectory using the two subgait
trajectories. If this is calculated correctly the new trajectory is translated to a subgait file which is eventually

> send to the hardware-interface or simulation part of the exoskeleton software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sent to the gait scheduler.
```

ROS API
-------

Nodes
^^^^^

> *gait_selection_node* - Responsible for doing the thing.

Reviewer: Maybe fill the template here :wink:

Author: haha indeed.

> *perform_gait_action* - Responsible for doing the thing.

Reviewer: This is not a seperate ROS node, so this can be removed. Everything this class does belongs to the `gait_selection_node`.

Subscribed Topics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*/march/gait/perform* (:march:`march_shared_resources/action/GaitName <march_shared_resources/action/GaitName.action>`)

>   Receives requested subgait, with gait(s), originating from the march-state-machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Receives requested subgait, with gait(s), originating from the march_state_machine.
```

Published Topics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
*/march/gait/schedule* (:march:`march_shared_resources/action/Gait <march_shared_resources/action/Gait.action>`)

>   Send subgait data to the hardware interface of the exoskeleton software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Sends subgait trajectories to the march_gait_scheduler
```

Services
^^^^^^^^
*/march/gait_selection/get_version_map* (`std_srvs/srv/Trigger <http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/std_srvs/html/srv/Trigger.html>`_)

>   Returns the name of the gait_version map of the gait_selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Returns the current loaded gait version map.
```

*/march/gait_selection/set_version_map* (:march:`march_shared_resources/srv/StringTrigger <march_shared_resources/srv/StringTrigger.srv>`)
  Sets a new gait version map in the gait_selection.

*/march/gait_selection/get_directory_structure* (`std_srvs/srv/Trigger <http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/std_srvs/html/srv/Trigger.html>`_)

>   Return the directory structure of the gait-files repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Returns the directory structure of the gait-files repository.
```

*/march/gait_selection/update_default_versions* (`std_srvs/srv/Trigger <http://docs.ros.org/melodic/api/std_srvs/html/srv/Trigger.html>`_)

>   Calls the update_default_versions function of the gait_selection.

Reviewer: Could you also add the new `ContainsGait` service :innocent: , just merged in project-march/march#501.
